------- NetCDF -------

In this tutorial, you will learn to explore and manipulate NetCDF files in two ways: Using the terminal and command-line tools, or using python and the xarray package. 
While using Python in a notebook might be more friendly and intuitive for some of you, using the command line is useful for either having a quick look at a file without opening python or when you are dealing with heavy files (the command-line tools are more efficient computationally than python). 
There is one notebook for each, and they are independant, so you might go through them in the order you like.

For this exercise, we provide one NetCDF file extracted from the E-OBS database, which consists of interpolated station observations. 
Both notebooks will teach you how to go through two steps: 
1. Open the file and explore its content;
2. Perform an analysis. 

1 -- Opening and exploration
When you are provided with a NetCDF file, it is always a good idea to start with checking its content (even when you think you know what it contains). Here is a guide for the exploration:
•	What variables are present in the file? What are their unit and range? (Does it make sense?)
•	Over which area and which period are these variables provided? (Is it what you expect and need?)
•	What is the frequency and the spatial resolution of the data? (Is it enough?)

2 -- Analysis
Here, we show how to make two analyses broken down in a few steps:

i. Compute the yearly time series of temperature over Oxford
    a.	Extract the temperature over Oxford (as a point)
    b.	Compute the yearly average
    c.	Display the time series
    d.	Can you see an increase over the period? 

ii. Precipitation climatology over Ireland
    a.	Extract the temperature over Ireland (as a box)
    b.	Compute the climatology (time average)
    c.	Display the map
    d.	What is the rainiest region in Ireland?

Then, we suggest you run similar analyses on you own. 
Here are a few ideas, more or less broken down into steps to represent different levels of difficulty:
